You got this!
Come on!
Go, go, go!
Yes!
Bro, that was good!
Hurry up, we’re gonna be late!
Yeah, let’s go!
Woo!
And he called them his friends.
We see throughout the Gospel accounts
that those
who chose to befriend Jesus
gained the best friend possible.
Hey there!
Oh, hey!
Oh, you like to draw?
I like your notes.
Really cool.
Mom taught me.
Pictures help me remember.
Me too.
So it looks like we have a talk together.
Yeah.
I’ll be in touch to practice soon.
Lydia, we’re leaving.
Well, I gotta go.
See you later, Sophia.
Hey, bro.
Hey, good to see you.
I’m glad I was on your team.
My favorite thing was the safari tree house.
Yeah! It had all
the cool jungle animals on the wall.
Timmy, I didn’t think your team
was gonna make it.
I love my prize.
You got a prize?
We all did.
Umm.
Hehe.
OK, kids, settle down.
It’s time to get started.
We have a lot to talk about today.
Before we begin,
for those of you that participated
in the Science Club this weekend,
we will be having another camping trip.
But only the ones
with the highest score on the math project
will be selected to go.
More on that after class.
Hey, Sophia.
We need you in our club.
You’re good at science.
We have another trip coming up.
Hey, Sophia!
Come with us.
So anyway, all the kids had badges
and prizes and stuff,
and it sounded like a lot of fun.
And it seems like they really need my help.
Hmm.
I see.
Oh, you see what’s wrong with the car?
No, I wish.
No, I see why you want to be in the club.
You do?
Of course.
We all want to have friends
and do fun things.
Please, would you mind moving
the light over here?
Uh, right there, thank you.
I just wish I had some kid friends.
Hmm.
Jehovah wants you and me to have friends.
But the question you need to ask yourself is,
‘Who should be my friend?’
Let’s talk about it
at our next family worship.
How about you go do some research on Martha.
And I will tell Caleb too.
And then we can come back together
and talk about it as a family.
Sophia, are you ready?
Yeah!
“Martha.
A Jewess, the sister of Lazarus and Mary.”
They lived in Bethany,
“a village ‘about two miles’ away
from Jerusalem,”
which was probably Jesus’ home base
when he came down from Galilee.
Martha liked to cook.
Yes, she did.
And she would cook for Jesus
and all his disciples when they would visit.
Wow!
That would have been a lot of food.
Yes, and a lot of work.
But if they work together,
they’d make it a success.
However, some of their friends
felt differently about Jesus.
Martha makes the best apricot cakes.
It’s just a fact.
You’ve always praised me too much, Talia.
Well, if it gets me more apricot cakes,
I will continue to praise you.
Oh Talia, did you hear?
The Teacher, Jesus,
he’s coming back to visit.
The man from Galilee?
Are you— Are you hosting him again?
Yes, I am.
Actually, it’s tonight.
I’ve heard a lot of talk.
The Pharisees in Jerusalem,
they don’t approve of that man.
I am not sure it’s such a good idea
for you to be known as his friend.
OK, well, I guess I better be getting home.
See you two later.
Martha!
Jesus is here.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Let me get this straight.
He wanted you and Mary
to sit and learn about God just like the men?
A teacher instructing women?
A woman’s job
is to provide food for her household.
That’s true!
A good woman
“prepares herself for hard work.”
That’s valuable.
That’s you, Martha.
Don’t let this Jesus ruin you with his ideas.
Lazarus!
So kind of you.
How is he doing?
Not well.
I sent word to Jesus.
He will help my brother.
You sent word to Jesus?
Have you still not heard?
He’s angering people
with his shocking speech.
He’s claiming to be God’s Son.
He’s crazy!
He’s loyal to Jehovah, and he is our friend.
Sadly, Lazarus died.
But do you remember what happened next?
Jesus came back to Bethany
and resurrected Lazarus.
Jesus was a real friend.
He cared about Martha, Mary, and Lazarus,
and he showed them
what kind of Friend Jehovah can be to us.
But that’s not where this story ends.
Do you know what some people did after that?
“Many of the Jews . . .
who saw what he did put faith in him,
“but some of them went off to the Pharisees
and told them what Jesus had done.”
Why did they do that?
Because not even seeing Jesus
bring someone back to life
was enough to convince them
that he was the Christ.
They seemed like Martha’s friends,
but they hated Jesus.
How do you think Martha dealt
with her unbelieving friends?
Jesus is the Christ,
“the resurrection and the life.”
He is the Son of God.
And he is my friend.
Talia, you’ve been kind to me in the past.
But you don’t believe Jesus’ teachings.
We cannot be friends.
Martha stuck with Jesus and his friends.
They helped her become Jehovah’s friend.
So, Sophia,
what do you think Jehovah is teaching you
about friendship?
That I have to choose my friends carefully.
And how can you know
if someone should be your friend?
If they help me be Jehovah’s friend.
I’m not going to join the club.
That’s my girl.
We are so proud of you, Sophia.
And Jehovah is proud of you too.
Now,
how about you go finish up your homework?
Mom tells me we have a guest coming over.
OK.
Jehovah, please help me find a good friend,
someone who loves you.
At least you’re my friend.
Sophia!
Lydia is here.
Our talk!
Do you like turtles?
I love turtles!
Really?
I’ve got something I want to show you.
He is so cute.
You know, Sophia,
I think we’re going to be friends.
Yup, definitely friends.